<ol>
  <li>
    <ol>
      <li>Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect, and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness;</li>
      <li>In hope of eternal life, which God, that cannot lie, promised before the world began;</li>
      <li>But hath in due times manifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our Saviour;</li>
      <li>To Titus, mine own son after the common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour.</li>
      <li>For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as I had appointed thee:</li>
      <li>If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly.</li>
      <li>For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God; not selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre;</li>
      <li>But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate;</li>
      <li>Holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers.</li>
      <li>For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, specially they of the circumcision:</li>
      <li>Whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthy lucre's sake.</li>
      <li>One of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, The Cretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies.</li>
      <li>This witness is true. Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith;</li>
      <li>Not giving heed to Jewish fables, and commandments of men, that turn from the truth.</li>
      <li>Unto the pure all things are pure: but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience is defiled.</li>
      <li>They profess that they know God; but in works they deny him, being abominable, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>
    <ol>
      <li>But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine:</li>
      <li>That the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience.</li>
      <li>The aged women likewise, that they be in behaviour as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things;</li>
      <li>That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children,</li>
      <li>To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed.</li>
      <li>Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded.</li>
      <li>In all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrine shewing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity,</li>
      <li>Sound speech, that cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you.</li>
      <li>Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and to please them well in all things; not answering again;</li>
      <li>Not purloining, but shewing all good fidelity; that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things.</li>
      <li>For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men,</li>
      <li>Teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world;</li>
      <li>Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ;</li>
      <li>Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works.</li>
      <li>These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>
    <ol>
      <li>Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work,</li>
      <li>To speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men.</li>
      <li>For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another.</li>
      <li>But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared,</li>
      <li>Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost;</li>
      <li>Which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour;</li>
      <li>That being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.</li>
      <li>This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men.</li>
      <li>But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and strivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain.</li>
      <li>A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject;</li>
      <li>Knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth, being condemned of himself.</li>
      <li>When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent to come unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determined there to winter.</li>
      <li>Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them.</li>
      <li>And let ours also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful.</li>
      <li>All that are with me salute thee. Greet them that love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Amen.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
</ol>