<ol>
  <li>
    <ol>
      <li>The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth.</li>
      <li>Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth.</li>
      <li>For I rejoiced greatly, when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth.</li>
      <li>I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth.</li>
      <li>Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren, and to strangers;</li>
      <li>Which have borne witness of thy charity before the church: whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well:</li>
      <li>Because that for his name's sake they went forth, taking nothing of the Gentiles.</li>
      <li>We therefore ought to receive such, that we might be fellowhelpers to the truth.</li>
      <li>I wrote unto the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not.</li>
      <li>Wherefore, if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth, prating against us with malicious words: and not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and forbiddeth them that would, and casteth them out of the church.</li>
      <li>Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. He that doeth good is of God: but he that doeth evil hath not seen God.</li>
      <li>Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth itself: yea, and we also bear record; and ye know that our record is true.</li>
      <li>I had many things to write, but I will not with ink and pen write unto thee:</li>
      <li>But I trust I shall shortly see thee, and we shall speak face to face. Peace be to thee. Our friends salute thee. Greet the friends by name.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
</ol>